[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome to Docker Architecture.
After watching this video,
you will be able identify the components
of the Docker architecture.
Explain the features of the Docker
architecture components, and
describe the process of
containerization using Docker.
The Docker client server architecture
provides a complete application
environment.
Docker components include the client,
the host, and the registry.
Let's take a high level
view of how docker works.
First, you'll use either the Docker
command line interface or
REST APIs via the Docker client to send
instructions to the Docker host server,
commonly called the host.
The Docker host contains
the daemon known as dockered.
The daemon listens for
Docker API requests or
commands such as docker run,
and processes those commands.
The daemon does the heavy
lifting to build, run, and
distribute docker containers.
Then, Docker stores the container
images in a registry.
The Docker host also includes and
manages images, containers,
namespace networks,
storage plugins, and add-ons.
You can use the Docker client
to communicate with local and
remote docker hosts.
You can run the Docker client and
daemon on the same system or
connect your docker client to
a remote Docker daemon, and
Docker daemons can also communicate with
other daemons to manage docker services.
Docker stores and
distributes images in a registry.
Registry access is either public,
such as Docker hub,
which is accessible by everyone,
or private.
Enterprises usually opt to use a private
registry for security reasons.
And registry locations are hosted using
a third-party provider such as IBM Cloud
container registry, or self-hosted in
private data centers or on the cloud.
Next, let's learn about moving
images into the registry.
First, developers build and
push the images using automation or
a build pipeline into a registry
where Docker stores these images.
Then, local machines, cloud systems, and
on premises systems can pull those images.
Let's examine the process in more detail.
Here is a visual representation
of the Docker architecture,
which consists of the client, the Docker
host, including the Docker daemon,
and the registry with its
existing stored images.
Let's check out
the containerization process.
Here's how you use Docker to
create a container image.
First, use an existing base image or
a Docker file.
Then issue the build command that
creates a container image with a name.
Next, issue the push command to
store the image to the registry.
The host first checks locally if
the image is already available, and
then issues the run command with
the image name to create the container.
If the image is unavailable
within the host,
the Docker client connects to the registry
and pulls the image to the host.
The daemon then creates a running
container using the image.
In this video, you learned that Docker
architecture consists of a Docker client,
a Docker host, and a registry.
The client interacts with the host
using commands and REST APIs.
The Docker host includes the daemon
commonly called dockerd.
The docker host also manages images,
containers, namespaces,
networks, storage,
plugins, and add-ons, and
containerization is the process used
to build, push, and run an image.
To create a running container.
[MUSIC]